Marking sheet. Read this entirely.

Name:       George Field
Coursecode: G403
e-mail:     gf12815@my.bristol.ac.uk

Base mark (tick the best category that applies to your program):

A: 
   _   0%   Nothing

   _   5%   A program which does not compile.

   _  10%   A working program that does not give the right output
            i.e. it compiles, it reads the text file, and prompts for 
            queries, but it does not give the right number of occurrences 
            for a given keyword.

   _  20%   A working program implementing the linked list approach. Your 
            program gives the right number of occurrences for the test
            keywords named on the assignment sheet. 

   _  35%   A working program implementing the linked list approach and the
            hash table approach. Your program gives the right number of 
            occurrences for the test keywords named on the assignment sheet.
            Your hash function and the table size are tuned for the suggested
            input text file ("A Portrait"). 

   _  45%   A working program implementing the linked list approach and the
            hash table approach. The hash table is dynamically resized when 
            it reaches a certain level of fullness. This makes your program 
            flexible; you have tried it on input other than the suggested 
            text file ("A Portrait") and it still performs well. 

   X  60%   A working program implementing the linked list approach and the
            hash table approach. Your hash table is dynamic (see 40%), and  
            you have implemented the hash table as abstract data type (data 
            structure and a set of operations on it). 

Tick any of the following if appropriate:

B: X   5%   You have commented your code properly.  This means every
            function is clearly defined as an operation, an input and
            corresponding output set. As a rough guide, 30% of your
	    submission must be comments.

C: X   5%   Your program has proper indentation. Indentation is
            consistent throughout your code, empty lines are used
	    consistently. For example, either you use an empty line
	    between every two functions, or you never have an empty line
	    between two functions. Either you have an empty
	    line before every while, or not one before any while.
	    Similarly for indentation, every statement must be indented
	    properly. Do not tick box C if there is a single statement
	    that is not indented properly. (HINT: use emacs and hit the
	    tab key on every line and you have a neatly indented program
	    -- do not do this if you don't want those marks)

D: X   5%   You have defined constants and types, and declared variables 
            using names which clearly indicate their use.

E: X  10%   You do not use global variables, and functions and loops
            are used properly. In particular, there is no duplicated
	    code anywhere. If you have used a "COPY AND PASTE" feature
	    of your editor, than it is likely that you have duplicated
	    code, and that you cannot tick this box.
 
F: X  10%   You made an extensive analysis using various hash functions and 
            table sizes. You timed data organisation and retrieval using 
            the linked list and the hash table approach. The results are 
            documented and discussed in a report.
         

Provisional mark (Add marks A to F)

 90 %

Agreed mark (to be filled in by the lecturer; this is the only box you do
not fill in):

 ___ %

If you score 95% I might round it up to 100%.
